"""""""""""""""""
Development Guidance
"""""""""""""""""



...........
UTM021 IT Development Team
...........
.. contents:: Overview
   :depth: 3
   


Introduction
===================
This project is aimed for developing and maintaining the Official Website for UT021 in University of Toronto by IT Development Team (Logistics Department in UT021). Website uses Python Django (Basic Framework), integrate with MangoDB (Database), and deploys on Vercel (Cloud Server). THe website contains two main part: one part is the display of UT021 details, second part is the development backyard.




Technical Details
===================



----------------------
DJango
----------------------
Django is a web framework done by Python.



What is Project Structure?
--------------------------
There is a project, inside project there are many different apps. In our project, project name is official_website, apps are website pages, such as: official_website/home, official_website/subpages/about, official_website/subpages/contact...

Also, when first create project, there's a root app, in our project called official_website/mysite.



How is URL works?
--------------------------
Every app has an urls.py, the root one is official_website/mysite/urls.py. Django delieve the url to root first (official_website/mysite/urls.py), and then go to other app's urls.py based on "urlpatterns" inside urls.py.



Django frequently used Command
--------------------------
.. code:: python

  django-admin startproject official_website    # create a django proeject called official_website
  
  python3 manage.py startapp home   # create an app (official_website/home) inside the project

  python3 manage.py runserver      # start local server, default port: http://127.0.0.1:8000
  
  python3 manage.py makemigrations    # makemigrations first, and then migrate, Eric guess: setup something

  python3 manage.py migrate       # always makemigrations and migrate together

  python3 manage.py collectstatic     # move js,html,css file from project/app/static ----> project/static (root static folder)
  


----------------------
Vercel
----------------------
Vercel is cloud website hosting service. It is only free cloud service Mr. Eric can find, and we can use its free service.



Vercel frequently used Command
--------------------------
.. code:: python
  
  vercel        # testing, preview deploy, (not actually change the website)
  vercel --prod     # real deploy, change website



----------------------
MangoDB
----------------------
MangoDB is a Database. It is one of the DB(DataBase) which can integrate with both Django and Vercel, and MangoDB has free cloud service.



----------------------
Project Folder Structure and Explaination
----------------------
This folder structure is basic one, future web pages will be expanded based on this basic structure.

.. code:: python
   
 |official_webiste    # the project
 --|>.vercel     # auto generated by vercel, when you deploy it
   |>.vscode     # vscode setup folder  
   |>home        # home page of the website
   --|>__pycache__     # python become low level code, which called pycache
     |>migrations      # auto generated when you migrate
     |>static          # store static file, includes css,html,js used in home page
     |>subpages        # ex: ut021.com/others, in this case, others page is one of the subpage of home page (ut021.com/ this is home page)
     |>template        # has one or more html file
     --|home.html      # source code for home page, template can have multiple web pages, such as, different user sees different home page, then we may be have home1.html and home2.html
     |__init__       # every folder, subfolder should have "__init__", in order for django to understand
     |admin.py       # related to database
     |apps.py        # auto generated
     |models.py      # related to database
     |test.py        # test code
     |urls.py        # app's url, help django to understand "ut021.com/" should be here, and use home.html
     |views.py       # django first check urls.py, if django should come inside this app, django go to views.py, views.py runs home.html and some logic
   |>mysite     # root app for the project
   --|>__phcache__
     |__init__.py
     |asgi.py
     |models.py
     |setting.py    # setting for the project, many modification based on default (first created project)
     |urls.py       # root urls, django first receive string url from user, based on urlpatterns defined inside urls.py, django may go to home/urls.py
     |wsgi.py       # remember add "app = aplication" at the end
   |>static         # root static folder, stores all the css,html,js files, after collectstatic, all static files from subfolders will be moved to root statc folder
   |>staticfiles_build   #auto generated, when collectstatic
   |>subpages       # subpage in current app, for example: ut021.com/about, ut021.com/contact
   |.gitignore      # github will not put this files and folders mentioned inside .gitignore onto github.com
   |build_files.sh  # setup vercel cloud environment when deploy website
   |manage.py       # default file when create project, no need for modification
   |README.rst      # it is the file you are reading now
   |requirement.txt # the required package vercel need to download when deploying
   |vercel.json     # guidance for vercel to know what to do
   
   


























   
Template 1 - Section
===================
.. code:: sh
   
  $ 
  $ 
  $ 
  $ 
   
  
  
  
----------------------
Template 2 - SubSection
----------------------
.. code:: sh

  $ 
  $ 
  $ 
  $ 



Template 3 - SubSubSection
--------------------------
.. code:: sh

  $ 
  $ 
  $ 
  $ 
